Laura Kuenssberg: 
Ukraine in 'mortal danger' without aid, Olena Zelenska warns

Olena Zelenska has warned that Ukrainians are in "mortal danger" of being left to die 
if Western countries don't continue their financial support.
Ukraine's first lady spoke to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg a day after 
Republican senators in the US blocked a key aid bill.
It would have provided more than $60bn (£47.8bn) 
worth of support to Ukraine.
Speaking hours after a Russian 
missile attack, she said: "If the world gets tired, they will simply let us die."
The White House has warned that US funds for Ukraine could soon run out, but 
Republicans have held up a deal to authorise more assistance.
They are seeking to secure compromises from President Joe Biden and Democrats in 
Congress on funding for US border measures, in exchange for their support.
President Biden said the failure to agree Ukraine aid would be a "gift" for President Vladimir Putin, 
warning history would "judge harshly those who turned their back on freedom's cause".

Nearly two years since Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine, the first 
lady expressed grave concern over delays in funding.
In an exclusive interview to be broadcast on Sunday, Olena Zelenska 
told the BBC the slowdown in aid represented a "mortal danger" for her country.
She said: "We really need the help. In simple words, we cannot get 
tired of this situation, because if we do, we die.
"And if the world gets tired, they will simply let us die."
The first lady continued: "It hurts us greatly to see the signs that the p
assionate willingness to help may fade.
"It is a matter of life for us. Therefore, it hurts to see that."
Ukraine still hopeful for US aid package after Senate setback
Zelensky speaks out as US stand-off imperils war effort
The UK has also been urging politicians in Washington DC to agree a deal for Ukraine.
UK Foreign Secretary Lord Cameron said on a visit to Washington this week that 
the US was the "lynchpin" of the Western coalition backing Ukraine's fight against Russia.
He urged the US not to give Mr Putin a "Christmas present" by blocking the billions
of dollars of financial support required to continue the war against Russian forces.

There is little doubt that the international community's attitude towards Ukraine has shifted.
Full-throated support in Washington DC cannot be guaranteed - and yet the fundamentals of the conflict have not budged.
A country on Europe's eastern flank is still fighting to repel Russian 
forces after the Kremlin launched an illegal invasion. Ukraine surprised the world when its 
armed forces prevented the country being overrun in February 2022.
Many Western countries surprised them in return with the enthusiasm of their support.
However, Ukraine cannot keep going in the same vein without the wealth and backing of other countries.
The first lady's warnings seem designed to make that crystal clear.